>> Anjana Vakil: Let's
continue with our update.
So again,
we have in JavaScript this syntax for
updating an array in place by assigning
to the array element at that index.
What can we do?
We can use some of these non mutating
array methods to help ourselves out here.
Would anyone like to share with me how
they would approach this updating?
This is a little trickier.
>> Speaker 2: I mapped it.
>> Anjana Vakil: Okay, we could map, and
I don't know if we have access to our
helpers here, so
let's just use a radop map,
which is again not mutating,
and then what do we pass in?
>> Speaker 2: I put in the item and
then the index.
>> Anjana Vakil: Okay, so if you're
used to writing map functions that look
like this, like item to item,
which I think most of us are.
Don't forget, you also have the option
in JavaScript map input functions,
the transformer functions.
If you add another variable here that
will be given the index of each element.
So, we can then use that to check if it's
the correct index by
checking the value of i.
So if i is the index
that we're interested in,
>> Speaker 2: Then return the value,
otherwise, just the normal item.
>> Anjana Vakil: No, sorry, value.
You're right.
So if I, if we are at the stage in
our mapping where we have reached
the index that we are interested in,
forget that original item and
just return the value and
otherwise return the original item.
>> Anjana Vakil: Sounds good to me.
>> Speaker 3: Say we have one more
suggestion from the chat that kind of
mirrors the push to run
a statement where it spreads over
the array.slice from zero to the index,
then includes the value and
then includes the spreaded array
from the index to the end.
>> Anjana Vakil: Okay, I think I'm
picking up what you're putting down.
So it'd be something
like return new array.
Let's say we can make
a like items before or
like, items before is array.slice
>> Speaker 3: From zero to the index.
>> Anjana Vakil: From
zero to the given index.
So that's gonna stop
right before that index.
And then the items after
would be array.slice.
>> Speaker 4: Index plus 1.
>> Anjana Vakil: Index plus 1.
Because we want the things after
the index, not the thing at the index.
So if we split up this array,
we've isolated there's one thing
in the array that I care about,
one index in the array that I care about.
I want to capture everything in the array
that was before that, and everything
in the array that was after that, and
then what I can do is spread those out.
Now, if I did this.
>> Anjana Vakil: I would
not be satisfying the spec,
because where's the updated value?
So I need to put that
right in between them.
Yeah, is this the solution that we had?
>> Speaker 5: Yep,
that's what they had in there.
>> Anjana Vakil: Cool, and I do I need
these variables items before, items after?
No, I could also just do this directly
in that line and so on and forth.
But that's just a question of readability.
So, these are legit ways to do this.
And the point of this exercise, [LAUGH],
is to get us thinking carefully about when
we're mutating data and when we are not.
So, am I going to demand that you
only use this update function
instead of assigning things to
the square bracket notation of the, no.
But I do think it's a great
idea in JavaScript or
any other place to make sure that you know
what of the features of the language or
built-ins or libraries or
whatever that you're using
are messing with your data and
which ones are copying it.
So that you can be assured the old
one will never get messed up.
So, I just clicked the Solve button here
to show you another possible way we could
do this.
It's very similar to that spread
one that we just saw, which is to
kinda chain these calls together,
which you might see this kind of array and
then dot this, and then dot that and
then dot the other thing.
You might be used to seeing
that a lot in your code, right?
This is a way that we can
essentially pipe information through
multiple functions if we know
that these methods take in,
let's say, in this case,
slice takes in an array and
returns an array, and so
does concat, and so does map.
If we through a reduced
in the middle of here,
where now I've just got one
value instead of a whole array.
That might get a little confusing, but
as long as we are working
on the same types of data.
We can kinda chain these method
calls together to essentially
create a functional pipeline
without having to flip our code
around in our minds, and
without having to indulge on in
exercises where we implement
our own functional utilities.
[LAUGH] So this is also another
way that you might have solved it,
but basically all the same idea.